The Joe Rogan experience.
You know, machines are, this is an interesting point of view. Okay.
There is a belief that machines are great for beginners and because
you don't have to control it, it savence isolated. So on and so forth.
Really machines have limited use for advanced lifters
when they're injured or whenever they have to just really focus on something.
So it's possible. It's possible to use a machine. If you're really messed up,
you can find some angle, but a beginner starts doing leg presses.
Uh it's skinto missap coordination. It's not gonna have the back strengths.
It's not gonna be some strengths. Mm. So machines are not necessarily bad.
So the Peck deck might be okay for bodybu looking for
cuts or for somebody recovering from an injury,
knowing exactly the angle to which to push,
but your typical person going the gym has no business doing that. None.
One of the things that I love aboutll ketlebells is that it promotes functional
strength. It promotes the entire body moving as a unit.
And that seems to apply very quickly to athletics.
It's one of the reasons why jujitsu people have adopted kettlebell training.
So almost universally. Absolutely. There.
Are many reasons why, but that's one of.
Them. Yeah. And non-amous moves like Turkish get up,
which is like one of the very best moves.
Forjijitsu it's just phenomenal for your stability, your core and your,
your ability to get out from under the bottom bottom positions.
And so just a phenomenal work, uh, phenomenal workout, but the, the,
the, these principles of using the entire body and, you know,
with he bells using different parts of your,
about using your legs, your core, your AB all in one,
one workout ISS also. So it's so effective time wise,
cuz you can get a spectacular workout in a very short amount of time.
You're correct, Joe,
maybe this is a good time to discuss the bad S of Kett bills versus let's say
bar bills or body. Sure. That's very good conversation. That's a question.
Ask people, ask coffin. Right?
So I would name these as three top modalities for people. Yeah.
There are some other additional things, dumb bills and whatever,
but that usually they're secondary.
So what are the respective benefits of these different modalities?
The body weight is obviously it's accessible.
It's with you no matter where you go, but interestingly enough,
the body weight requires the most coaching. So you have to, it's very subtle.
Like for example, if you look at developing something,
the gym is called the hollowlo position takes a lot of coaching to perform,
correct. Even pull up or pushup.
It's it's a lot of work well on like the squad so on and so forth.
So it's great and takes, but it just takes more time, more investment.
Also the downside of the body weight would be,
you can't really turn your lower back effectively and you have to turn your
lower back to see young. You just have to, and whatever you do back extensions,
other stuff, neck bridges, it's not gonna do for your back. Just won't.
So by the way, great modality. But with its these limitations,
the Barb bell, if you just love heavy stuff, it's awesome.
And it's just psychologically, it's extremely satisfying.
A heavy debt of let's say for some people not for all,
then if you're looking forward to maximize your muscle mass,
nobody has come up yet with anything other than the barbell. So, you know,
you start doing, you know, some repetition dadlift squad, so on.
So that's another reason, but let's say you are playing football, right?
The problem with the barbell, first of all, is the, um,
learning curve. It takes some time to learn it correctly.
It's not easy to master it. And it takes a lot of instruction.
In addition, um, the Barb is not forgiving.
So let's say that one of your shoulders is a Jack top.
It's just not very forgiving because you can't,
you just have to adjust yourself to the bar as opposed to make the implement,
adjust to yourself. So this is where the ketlet comes in. First of all,
the ketlebit because it moves freely. It adjusts to your body,
to your physiology, to your anatomy, I should say. So it works.
It works quite well. For example, mark Rifkin. He is, uh,
one of my top instructors.
He was a highly successful gymnast in the past and later on,
he was a coach for women's power lifting national team and great parlifter too.
So he cannot do byilateral exercise as well because
of the mileage he sustained. He took a very bad landing as a gymnast,
ruins an knee. And then from there, other things went bad and back whatever. So,
but he can do one arm.
He cannot do two arm swings because it just messes him up. Mm.
But he can do one arm swing.
So the body see a little differently and he can handle it.
So it's with the proper medical clearance,
it's much easier to work around problems.
Then the offset center, gravity, that's just tremendous thing for your back.
I'm sorry for your shoulder. So the, the positions to put your shoulder in,
you cannot do with anything else, but, and you know,
obviously you have the get up, which is an amazing exercise.
Cannot do it as well with other implements.
But the ballistics that another unique benefit of the kettlebell
swings and snatches exercises like that,
the benefits of these exercises are many. So first of all,
ballistic loading obviously is part of sports and it's a part of life.
And oftentimes it's hard to do it safely.
Go ahead, start jumping it like before somebody starts jumping correctly,
jumping off boxes and so on and so forth. Just even, you know,
hopping across the floor. It requires some coaching.
It requires getting some strength.
It requires addressing some dysfunction. So on and so forth.
The gettable swing, for example, it's
so many hard men with high mileage who are really banged up in so many different
ways, their backs, their knees, their hips,
they're able to do swings safely and that's just remarkable.
And the ballistic contraction's very important. So you have to run,
you have to jump, you have to do things like that,
but it goes beyond that for your health for longevity.
So as we grow older, um,
there's a loss of type two muscle muscle fiber. So the strong ones,
the fast reach fibers, and there are several problems with that. First of all,
they're metbolically needed for the body to be healthy, to process sugar. So on.
So on and so forth.
Second is to deal with real life situations. You know,
like as very unfortunate, some old person trips and breaks the,
a hip it's terrible. And oftentimes the reason's just weakness.
And we need these fast fibers because whenever
you trip and you have this reflexive contraction, these fibers go online first.
So if you don't have the money more, you got massive problems, right? So
another reason is in type two fibers.
There is, uh, miochondrial degeneration takes place as you grow older,
much faster than others. And if you don't take care of that,
it's also that's aging. So you've gotta train this type two fibers.
And there are only two ways to train type two fibers it's heavy or fast.
So there's no third way.
So whenever people try to do some sort of a super slow this or
Pilates that whatever, it's not gonna do it.
So you have to train heavy or you have to train fast if you wanna stay
young. So.
Are you, uh, completely against that kind of super slow training?
Not at all, but for totally different reasons. There is. Um,
well obviously one reason is possibly somebody's injured, right?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> another reason is to develop your type one
endurance fibers hypertrophy for these fibers. Why would you want to do that?
Well, first of all, type one fibers,
they down side of these fibers is they cancontract slower.
So obviously that's a downside for some sports for some activities,
but they're also more efficient, which means it's plus for other sports, right?
So another positive here,
they already come prequiro maochondria so mitochondria.
That's where IE metabolism takes place.
And by building your type one fibers,
you automatically get more endurance in addition to muscle mass and strength
too. So
super slow work is good for that, but it has to be done correctly.
Uh,
the proper methods were developed by Russian professor
vicilian. And so he developed this method.
I'm gonna summarize it for you right now for your, for your listeners.
That's something you can easily do yourself. Well,
easily is not the word simply.
So the duration of a set is
30 to 60 seconds.
You have to select the range of motion where there's no, uh,
there's no stacking. There's no, there's no support from your bones at all.
So for example, if you were to do a squat, you go down below parallel,
but not to the point where you're sitting on your calves and come up just a
little above parallel and below again. So just that most unpleasant,
the most painful area. Mm. If you're doing,
let's say pushups for, for your chest, for example,
you would almost brush the deck with your chest,
come up about halfway and come back down. And the speed is very slow.
So there's no momentum at all. Now doesn't sound like anything new,
but here's, what's new. So Leana, I optimizeed the rest periods. And,
and that's a big game game changer.
Normally when people train in this manner bodybuils and others,
they just wanna get more burn possible. And by the way, the burn this awful.
And in this particular case, you want to train closer failure.
In this particular case, that's just a muscular training.
That's not strength training per se.
So they try to run for one set to the next. So they'll do that.
Let's say that 30 seconds set, then they will just, you know,
rest for 30 seconds to do it again, completely hammer themselves.
The problem with that is even though we do not know the exact
mechanisms of fossil growth,
we do know that some lactic acid is needed,
but too much llactic acid is destructive.
So what siion did is he figured out is after this kind of set,
you have to rest for five to 10 minutes. And that sounds for people it's, it's,
it's very hard mental thing to do. So here I am going for this massive burn
and I have to wait for five to 10 minutes, but it's very simple.
You introduce another exercise in between. So train twice a week,
five to five to 10 sets on the heavy day.
Eventually once you build up to it and about one to three sets in the light day,
that's it. Now this is incorporating super slow techniques. Oh yeah.
And who would this be good for? Wrestlers? Mm. For wrestlers is spectacular.
Yeah, because even though there are explosive elements there as well,
but it's also very much there's that static element, static endurance. And uh,
one of my strong first, one of my strong first instructors, Roger from the UK,
he, I had him follow this protocol, um,
before he and his crew rode across Atlantic and he did much better after most
people and was much happier if you can be happier rowing across the Atlantic.
So for rowing, for wrestling, for body building,
for some people who cannot do anything else, so that's a good protocol.
So this is.
Uh, essentially a muscular endurance protocol.
You know what, it's both because, because the muscle's getting bigger. Right.
And it will get stronger as well, but it won't be faster.
It's not something you would incorporate with a boxer.
I would. No, absolutely not. No, definitely. Rest are yes. MMA.
You just have to use your judgment there, right.
Maybe certain muscle depending upon your style. Yeah. Yeah.